So the three things I've talked about so
far, document databases,
relational databases, and graph databases.
They're more used for storing data.
They're more for
being original sources of truth.
And then yeah, they're meant to
be original sources of truth.
I think that's what I
wanted to say about that.
A key-value store is actually
an entirely different beast, and
used in an entirely different way.
Usually it's a companion
to another database.
I'm gonna say usually,
cuz I have seen people do very strange and
unexpected things with key-value stores.
But suffice to say,
That's not the common use case for these.
So you can think of a key-value
store as just the world's
largest JavaScript object, right?
You can set a key on an object
to be some sort of value.
And then later, you can come back and
say give me back the key that I
stored in this particular object.
This ends up being really useful for
a couple of things.
One of them is for caching, right?
So if you have some sort of
very expensive operation to do,
and you don't want to have
to redo it every single
time that someone makes a request
to a particular endpoint,
a key-value store is actually one of
the best things you can use for that.
If you had a very expensive SQL query
that queries every user in the database,
you can you can cache that temporarily
in a key-value store, such as Redis.
What else is this used for?
One of the things about
key-value stores is normally,
you don't store data in there
that you can't afford to lose.
So caching is a good example,
you can afford to lose your cache.
It might suck to lose your cache,
but you're not gonna drop data.
Another good use case would be telemetry.
If you lose all of your telemetry for
a day, or something like that,
it's probably not the end of the world.
You don't want to, but if you lost it,
you wouldn't cry about it.
Whereas, if you were storing bank
transactions in Redis, might be a problem.
And a bigger example of this
will actually be memcache, and
we'll talk about that
here in just a second.
Again, people are gonna disagree with me.
But I don't think it's
a controversial thing to say,
is that you typically don't wanna use a
key-value store for mission critical data.
So we'll get into it.
I'll show you how to use
Redis here in just a second.
But I just wanna let you know that there
are a couple other options out there that
are not Redis.
One of them is Postgres has
an ability called hstore,
which is really a key-value store.
So if you're already running Postgres, and
you have key-value kind of things that
you wanna store, and performance is not
necessarily the reason why you're doing
it, then hstore would be a good option.
hstore, it's a query against Postgres.
And a lot of times, that you're gonna use
a key-value store is to get away from
overloading your database servers.
And so you don't wanna just add more
things to your database server that kinda
defeats the purpose of why you would use
a key-value store in the first place.
So hstore is not gonna solve all of these
problems, but I just wanted to throw it
out there that it is actually
possible to do it with Postgres.
The most common one I
would say is memecached.
I imagine many of you've probably heard of
memcache, probably have used memecached.
Memcache is like the SQLite
of key-value stores,
in the sense that it's very simple.
It's very small, and it's meant
to do huge amounts of operations,
because it's not gonna write
anything to disc ever.
So if you turn off a computer, guess what?
Your entire memcache goes away, so
that can be a little scary to people, so
don't store essential stuff in memcache.
But if you're just doing really
quick caching kind of things,
memcache is actually a really
good option for that.
It's, yeah,
the most simple program in the world.
All you do is give it keys and
ask for keys.
That's really the entire capability
of what memcache can do.
Today we're gonna talk
about one called Redis.
So I hear people say Redis, just sounds
weird to me, so I'm gonna stick to Redis.
Redis stands for Remote Dictionary Server,
I think that kinda makes sense
if you're a Python developer.
It's a remote dictionary that
you can read and write to.
I've used it a lot in my career.
I'd say it's one of the most common
pieces of infrastructure that I see.
I know Azure offers a managed Redis.
I know AWS does,
a lot of companies offer Redis.
It's an open source project as well.
It doesn't have any restrictive licensing,
so it's pretty free to use for
you as well.
And it's a great companion
to any other database.
So you'll use MongoDB and Redis.
So you'll use Postgres and Redis together.
So let's go ahead and get started with it.
So I'm gonna copy this one right here,
And I'm gonna pop over to my commandline.
I'm just gonna close this.
And I'm gonna say docker ps, and
I'm gonna first kill my Neo4j.
Again, you don't have to do this.
If you wanna keep playing with Neo4j,
feel free to just leave it up and running.
And now I'm going to
run this Redis server.
So this will get Redis
running with my Redis.
It'll expose port 6379,
which is the port that Redis runs on,
and we're running 6.0.8.
Okay, and
then I'm gonna copy this one here,
this Docker exec, and
this should drop me directly into Redis.
Okay, you can see here one, two,
so let's make this a lot bigger.
So you can see here, I've just
dropped directly into 127.0.0.1:639,
cuz I'm actually running this
from inside of the container.
So I'm connecting locally,
technically, to Redis.
So let's get this with the most
simple use case possible.
I don't know, just ignore that.
I'm just gonna say SET name,
Brian Holt, like that.
And it says, okay, I did that.
I did the thing that you asked me to do,
I set Brian Holt.
Now, what happens if I
wanna get Brian Holt?
You can probably guess,
GET name Brian Holt.
I mean, that's, let's be honest,
about 80% of how to use Redis right there.
We could probably end the class,
and you would just be like, okay,
I know enough about Redis right now.
We're not gonna stop there.
I'm gonna show you a bunch of other
really cool stuff you can do with Redis.
But getting and setting keys is about
90% of why you wanna use Reddit,
Reddit, Redis.
Too close, we did use Redis at Reddit.
That was confusing.
Okay, so the primary use case here would
be, let's say I queried my Neo4j cluster,
and I got a count of all the various
different facets of people.
And that was a very
expensive query to run.
What I would do is I would take that query
result, and I would put it in Redis.
And I'd say all right,
I have to rerun this query every
day to make sure this is fresh.
But I can just come in here and say get
Neo4j results, and it would just give me
back the results, so I don't have to
recalculate it every single time, right?
So it's a cache of what
I did from Postgres.